.\" Minimal man page for image-square-wizard
.TH ISW 1 "October 2025" "image-square-wizard 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
isw \- pad images to a square canvas using libvips
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B isw
[
.B --rcb
.I SPEC
]
.I INPUT
.I OUTPUT
.br
.B isw
.B --help
.br
.B isw
.B --version
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBisw\fR (image-square-wizard) analyses the aspect ratio of an image and pads
it to a square canvas via libvips. By default it probes the dominant color in
the image and uses that color for the newly created borders. The utility can
also accept an explicit background color or add transparent padding.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -r, --rcb SPEC
Set the resizer canvas background. Accepts \fItransparent\fR, hexadecimal
colors (#rgb, #rrggbb, #rgba, #rrggbbaa) or comma separated numeric triples/
quadruples (e.g. 12,34,56 or 12,34,56,128). Components must be between 0 and
255. Transparency requires an alpha-capable output format.
.TP
.B --help
Show detailed help text and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Show version information and exit.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
Input and output formats must be supported by libvips (jpg, png, webp, heic,
heif, tif, tiff, avif). Unsupported extensions abort processing.
.IP \(bu 2
Transparent backgrounds require alpha-capable formats (png, webp, heic, heif,
tif, tiff, avif). Attempting to use \fItransparent\fR with other formats exits
with an error.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 on success. Non-zero exit codes indicate invalid arguments or libvips
failures.
.SH AUTHOR
Igor Klepacki <neg4n@icloud.com> - neg4n.dev - https://github.com/neg4n/
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvipsthumbnail\fR(1), \fBvips\fR(1)
